So iterators and generators can be a confusing concept. In the end,
just keep in mind that a generator function,
the function with that star here and with the yield keyword is a function
that returns a new object which has a next method,
so what we wrote before manually.
Now you can write it manually and you could also just store an object with a next method here as a value
for the symbol iterator and you would be able to use for/of but using a generator function is simply
easier,
it's less code. What you yield here in the end will be the returned value of the next method later and
the generator function will create an object with such a next method where the next method will automatically
return an object with a value property, with whatever you yielded here or undefined if you're not yielding
anything new anymore and a done property which is either true if it is done or false
if there are more values that can be extracted and it's this exact concept, this iterator symbol with
such an iterator object that is used under the hood by arrays.
If we add a new array here, persons, where we have Max and Manu, then in the end you learned that such
an array is just an object, right,
an array is just a special type of object you could say
and if we console log this persons array and we save that and reload, we see this array like this but
we also see for example that it has a length property because it is an object which basically has properties
with an identifier of 0 and 1 but also a length property.
Now if we check the prototype of the array object, you will actually find this iterator symbol if you
watch closely,
this is something an array has on its prototype.
It has all these array methods you learned about - filter, find and so on but it also has this special
iterator symbol and the function here is then just a generator which yields us such an iterator object,
an object with a next method. So an array,
this default array we worked with all the time internally just uses the same logic we set up here and
at least for that, even if you don't need to write this code on your own
that often, this should be helpful for understanding how arrays work internally and how they are managed
and how the data they return is managed because since an array also has a length property, we need some
logic that controls that we only return these values on 0 and 1 here if we loop through this array and
the logic for returning just that lives in this generator function and in the iterator next method which
is generated when this generator function gets called,
this is how arrays work internally and this is how generators and iterators work in general.
So with that, we can also utilize symbols, the built-in iterator symbol to work with iterator and generators
which allow us to create our own loopable values if we want to call it like this
and which basically now help us understand what arrays and strings do internally and what we can do
on our own objects.